Add C++ Solution + Editorial to Shortcut (Gold) (#2527)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/usaco-899.mdx

We can find the values for $\texttt{trav}_i$ quickly with [Djikstra's Algorithm](/gold/shortest-paths). To get $\texttt{occ}_i$, we'll store the parents of nodes during our Djikstra's Algorithm, so we can backtrack to get the counts of cows that pass through. This can be found in $\mathcal{O}(N^2)$ because $N \leq 10^4$.

## Implementation

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(M\log N + N^2)$

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

int main() {
	freopen("shortcut.in", "r", stdin);
	freopen("shortcut.out", "w", stdout);

	int n, m, t;
	cin >> n >> m >> t;

	vector<int> fields(n);
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		cin >> fields[i];
	}

	// adj[i] = {travel time, adjacent node}
	vector<vector<pair<int, int>>> adj(n);
	for (int i = 0; i < m; i++) {
		int u, v, c;
		cin >> u >> v >> c;

		adj[--u].push_back({c, --v});
		adj[v].push_back({c, u});
	}

	// prev stores parents for backtracking
	vector<int> cost(n, INT32_MAX), prev(n, INT32_MAX);
	priority_queue<pair<int, int>, vector<pair<int, int>>, greater<pair<int, int>>> pq;
	
	cost[0] = 0;

> 	// travel time, adjacent node

Reviewer: "adjacent node"?

Author: oops, typo

Let's call $\texttt{occ}_i$ the number of cows that pass through field $i$. Then the answer would be $\max(\sum\limits_{i=0}^n \texttt{occ}_i \cdot (\texttt{trav}_i - T))$. $\texttt{trav}_i$ being the cost for one cow to get from field $i$ to $1$.

We can find the values for $\texttt{trav}_i$ quickly with [Djikstra's Algorithm](/gold/shortest-paths). To get $\texttt{occ}_i$, we'll store the parents of nodes during our Djikstra's Algorithm, so we can backtrack to get the counts of cows that pass through. This can be found in $\mathcal{O}(N^2)$ because $N \leq 10^4$.

## Implementation

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(M\log N + N^2)$

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

int main() {
	freopen("shortcut.in", "r", stdin);
	freopen("shortcut.out", "w", stdout);

	int n, m, t;
	cin >> n >> m >> t;

	vector<int> fields(n);

	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		cin >> fields[i];
	}

	// adj[i] = {travel time, adjacent node}
	vector<vector<pair<int, int>>> adj(n);
	for (int i = 0; i < m; i++) {
		int u, v, c;
		cin >> u >> v >> c;

		adj[--u].push_back({c, --v});
		adj[v].push_back({c, u});
	}

	// prev stores parents for backtracking

> 	vector<int> cost(n, INT32_MAX), prev(n, INT32_MAX);

Reviewer: statements on sep lines

> 	priority_queue<pair<int, int>, vector<pair<int, int>>, greater<pair<int, int>>> pq;

Reviewer: might be too long?

	
	cost[0] = 0;

	// travel time, adjacent node
	pq.push({0, 0});

	while (pq.size()) {
		pair<int, int> nxt = pq.top();
		pq.pop();
		
		int ccost = nxt.first;

> 		int cnode = nxt.second;

Reviewer: use `curr_` instead of just prefixing with `c`

> 		if (ccost != cost[cnode]) continue;

Reviewer: braces

> 		for (pair<int, int> u : adj[cnode]) {

Reviewer: (optional)
```suggestion
		for (const pair<int, int>& u : adj[cnode]) {
```

			// if this path is more optimal
			if (u.first + ccost < cost[u.second]) {
				cost[u.second] = u.first + ccost; 
				pq.push({u.first + ccost, u.second});
				prev[u.second] = cnode;

> 			// keep paths lexicographically minimum

Reviewer: elaborate on this comment maybe

---
id: usaco-899
source: USACO Gold 2019 January
title: Shortcut
author: Ryan Chou
---

[Official Analysis (C++)](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_shortcut_gold_jan19.html)

## Explanation

A simple brute-force approach would be to find the shortest path for all of the nodes, and then try to add a shortcut from $1$ to $i$ and find the shortest path again for all $i$.

Using this approach, the answer is $\min(\sum\limits_{i=0}^n \texttt{dist}-\texttt{short}_i)$, where $\texttt{dist}$ is the travel time that all cows take without a shortcut and $\texttt{short}_i$ represents the travel time that all cows take when there is a shortcut from $1$ to $i$. Although this will certainly TLE, it hints at a faster way to compute the time saved. 

> Let's call $\texttt{occ}_i$ the number of cows that pass through field $i$. Then the answer would be $\max(\sum\limits_{i=0}^n \texttt{occ}_i \cdot (\texttt{trav}_i - T))$. $\texttt{trav}_i$ being the cost for one cow to get from field $i$ to $1$.

Reviewer: put the `trav` definition before the "then the answer would be" maybe?

Reviewer: also elaborate on why this exists i mean like don't just spit random formulas and say "bro trust me"

Author: > don't just spit random formulas and say "bro trust me"

<img width="524" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/81596991/151115315-98f26c8c-5162-4f3f-bea3-aef1839a2b2f.png">

😆, yeah ill change it

> We can find the values for $\texttt{trav}_i$ quickly with [Djikstra's Algorithm](/gold/shortest-paths). To get $\texttt{occ}_i$, we'll store the parents of nodes during our Djikstra's Algorithm, so we can backtrack to get the counts of cows that pass through. This can be found in $\mathcal{O}(N^2)$ because $N \leq 10^4$.

Reviewer: > This can be found...

what's "this"

Author: `occ`, ill clarify

## Implementation

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(M\log N + N^2)$

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

int main() {
	freopen("shortcut.in", "r", stdin);
	freopen("shortcut.out", "w", stdout);

	int n, m, t;
	cin >> n >> m >> t;

	vector<int> fields(n);
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		cin >> fields[i];
	}

	// adj[i] = {travel time, adjacent node}
	vector<vector<pair<int, int>>> adj(n);
	for (int i = 0; i < m; i++) {
		int u, v, c;
		cin >> u >> v >> c;

		adj[--u].push_back({c, --v});
		adj[v].push_back({c, u});
	}

	vector<int> cost(n, INT32_MAX);

	// prev stores parents for backtracking
	vector<int> prev(n, INT32_MAX);
	priority_queue<
		pair<int, int>, 
		vector<pair<int, int>>, 
		greater<pair<int, int>>
	> pq;
	
	cost[0] = 0;
	

> 	// travel time, next node

Reviewer: shouldn't next node be current onde instead?

Author: err i think it depends on the way you look at it, but ill change it to current node

	pq.push({0, 0});
	while (pq.size()) {
		pair<int, int> nxt = pq.top();
		pq.pop();
		
		int cur_cost = nxt.first;
		int cur_node = nxt.second;

		if (cur_cost != cost[cur_node]) {
			continue;
		}

		for (const pair<int, int>& u : adj[cur_node]) {
			// if this path is more optimal
			if (u.first + cur_cost < cost[u.second]) {
				cost[u.second] = u.first + cur_cost; 
				pq.push({u.first + cur_cost, u.second});
				prev[u.second] = cur_node;
			/*
			 * keep paths lexicographically minimum by 
			 * always choosing the lesser-indexed node
			 */
			} else if (u.first + cur_cost == cost[u.second] && cur_node < prev[u.second]) {
				prev[u.second] = cur_node;
				pq.push({u.first + cur_cost, u.second});
			}
		}
	}

> 	vector<long long> occ(n, 0);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	vector<long long> occ(n);
```

---
id: usaco-899
source: USACO Gold 2019 January
title: Shortcut
author: Ryan Chou
---

[Official Analysis (C++)](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_shortcut_gold_jan19.html)

## Explanation

A simple brute-force approach would be to find the shortest path for all of the nodes, and then try to add a shortcut from $1$ to $i$ and find the shortest path again for all $i$.

> Using this approach, the answer is $\min(\texttt{dist}-\texttt{short}_i)$ for all i, where $\texttt{dist}$ is the travel time that all cows take without a shortcut and $\texttt{short}_i$ represents the travel time that all cows take when there is a shortcut from $1$ to $i$. Although this will certainly TLE, it hints at a faster way to compute the time saved. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using this approach, the answer is $\min(\texttt{dist}-\texttt{short}_i)$ for all $i$, where $\texttt{dist}$ is the travel time that all cows take without a shortcut and $\texttt{short}_i$ represents the travel time that all cows take when there is a shortcut from $1$ to $i$. Although this will certainly TLE, it hints at a faster way to compute the time saved. 
```

> Let's call $\texttt{occ}_i$ the number of cows that pass through field $i$ and $\texttt{trav}_i$ being the cost for one cow to get from field $i$ to $1$. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's call $\texttt{occ}_i$ the number of cows that pass through field $i$ and $\texttt{trav}_i$ the cost for one cow to get from field $i$ to $1$. 
```

> Then the answer would be $\max(\texttt{occ}_i \cdot (\texttt{trav}_i - T))$ for all i. This works because $\texttt{trav}_i - T$ calculates the decrease in travel time for one cow to reach field $1$. By multiplying this value by $\texttt{occ}_i$, we calculate the time decrease for all the cows that pass through that field. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then the answer would be $\max(\texttt{occ}_i \cdot (\texttt{trav}_i - T))$ for all $i$. This works because $\texttt{trav}_i - T$ calculates the decrease in travel time for one cow to reach field $1$. By multiplying this value by $\texttt{occ}_i$, we calculate the time decrease for all the cows that pass through that field. 
```

> Then the answer would be $\max(\sum\limits_{i=0}^n \texttt{occ}_i \cdot (\texttt{trav}_i - T))$. This works because $\texttt{trav}_i - T$ shows the decrease in travel time for one cow to get to field $1$. By multiplying it by $\texttt{occ}_i$, we calculate the time decrease for all the cows that pass through that barn. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then the answer would be $\max(\sum\limits_{i=0}^n \texttt{occ}_i \cdot (\texttt{trav}_i - T))$. This works because $\texttt{trav}_i - T$ calculates the decrease in travel time for one cow to reach field $1$. By multiplying this value by $\texttt{occ}_i$, we calculate the time decrease for all the cows that pass through that field. 
```

> Then the answer would be $\max(\sum\limits_{i=0}^n \texttt{occ}_i \cdot (\texttt{trav}_i - T))$. This works because $\texttt{trav}_i - T$ shows the decrease in travel time for one cow to get to field $1$. By multiplying it by $\texttt{occ}_i$, we calculate the time decrease for all the cows that pass through that barn. 

Reviewer 2: why is this a sum? shouldn't it just be the finding the max value of occ_i*(trav_i - T) for all i? I might be brain-farting here tho

Reviewer 2: I'm specifically talking about 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/8647920/151489865-8c666f89-d9c5-4fd7-8ebb-bdf0d7f7f032.png)

Author: oh yeah, im an idiot.

> We can find the values for $\texttt{trav}_i$ quickly with [Djikstra's Algorithm](/gold/shortest-paths). To get $\texttt{occ}_i$, we'll store the parents of nodes during our Djikstra's Algorithm, so we can backtrack to get the counts of cows that pass through. We can compute $\texttt{occ}$ in $\mathcal{O}(N^2)$ within the time limits because $N \leq 10^4$.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We can find the values for $\texttt{trav}_i$ quickly with [Dijkstra's Algorithm](/gold/shortest-paths). To get $\texttt{occ}_i$, we'll store the parents of nodes during our Dijkstra's Algorithm, so we can backtrack to get the counts of cows that pass through. We can compute $\texttt{occ}$ in $\mathcal{O}(N^2)$ within the time limits because $N \leq 10^4$.
```

Author: wait why did i spell it like that 😆

> We can find the values for $\texttt{trav}_i$ quickly with [Dijkstra's Algorithm](/gold/shortest-paths). To get $\texttt{occ}_i$, we'll store the parents of nodes during our Dijkstra's Algorithm, so we can backtrack to get the counts of cows that pass through. We can compute $\texttt{occ}$ in $\mathcal{O}(N^2)$ within the time limits because $N \leq 10^4$.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can find the values for $\texttt{trav}_i$ quickly with [Dijkstra's Algorithm](/gold/shortest-paths). To determine $\texttt{occ}_i$, we'll store the parents of nodes while running Dijkstra's so we can backtrack to determine the counts of cows that pass through. We can compute $\texttt{occ}$ in $\mathcal{O}(N^2)$ within the time limits because $N \leq 10^4$.
```
